# Using

- Open SwiftSplit
- Enter your admin password (SwiftSplit needs the admin password to read Celeste's game memory
- Go to [LiveSplit One](https://one.livesplit.org/)
- Open Celeste *after* SwiftSplit


# Splits JSON

Splits are configured using a JSON file and use "events" generated by SwiftSplit. They consist of a reset event and a 
list of route events. Unlike the route, which listens for events in a specific order, the reset event can trigger at 
any point during the route. Here's an example for Old Site:

```json
{
    "useFileTime": false,
    "reset": "reset chapter",
    "route": [
        "start chapter 2",
        "d8 > d3",
        "3x > 3",
        "8 > 9",
        "10 > 2",
        "12 > 13",
        "complete chapter 2"
    ]
}
```

The currently defined events are (`<...>` indicates a fill-in parameter):
- `start chapter <n>` - Triggered when the specified chapter number is started
- `reset chapter` - Triggered when the current chapter is reset (either by restarting the chapter or exiting to the map)
- `complete chapter <n>` - Triggered when the specified chapter number is completed
- `<from screen> > <to screen>` - Triggered when transitioning between two screens (you can find the screen IDS by
  looking at the `Level: Name:` when connected to Celeste, or by enabling debug and hovering over the screen in the map 
  editor.

Note that the *exact* text is important. Spaces and capitalization have to match. 

- Inserting an exclamation point (`!`) at the beginning of an event will cause that event to not trigger a split. This 
  can be useful when your route passes between two screens multiple times but you only want one split. 
- Anything after a ` ##` (*exactly* one space and two pound signs) will be trimmed off. This can be useful for 
  explaining events.
 

